README.md, before:

Population genomic evidence of adaptive response during the invasion
history of *Plasmodium falciparum* in the Americas
================
Margaux Lefebvre
2022-10-12

This repository is for this paper: (citation)

All the data are available here:

The languages used are mainly bash and R. At the end of the README of
each part, there is a description of the software used (with its
version) and the information of the R session.

# Summary

## [Creating the data set](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#creating-the-data-set)

-   [Primary filters for the data from *P. falciparum* Community Project
    conducted by
    MalariaGen](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#primary-filters-for-the-data-from-p-falciparum-community-project-conducted-by-malariagen-blue)
-   [Mapping and calling for the added data (Brazil, Haiti and French
    Guiana)](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#mapping-and-calling-for-the-added-data-brazil-haiti-and-french-guiana-yellow)
-   [Merge & final filters for the whole
    dataset](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#merge--final-filters-for-the-whole-dataset-green)
    -   [Merge the
        data](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#merge-the-data)
    -   [Analysis on the
        VCF](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#analysis-on-the-vcf)
    -   [Filter multi-clonal
        infections](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#filter-multi-clonal-infections)
    -   [Filter related
        strains](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#filter-the-related-strains)
-   [LD-pruning, MAF filtering for some
    analysis](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#ld-pruning-maf-filtering-for-some-analysis)
-   [*Plasmodium praefalciparum* as an
    outgroup](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#plasmodium-praefalciparum-as-an-outgroup)

## [Population structure analysis](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#population-structure-analysis)

-   [PCA](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#pca)
-   [ADMIXTURE](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#admixture)
-   [TreeMix](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#treemix)
    -   [The input
        format](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#the-input-format)
    -   [Find the optimal number of migration
        edges](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#find-the-optimal-number-of-migration-edges)
    -   [Find the consensus
        tree](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#find-the-consensus-tree)
-   [ADMIXTOOLS2](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#admixtools2)
    -   [Find the best admixture events
        number](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#find-the-best-admixture-events-number)
    -   [Find the best
        graph](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#find-the-best-graph)
    -   [The goodness of
        fit](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#the-goodness-of-fit)

## [Population genetic diversity and demographic history](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#population-genetic-diversity-and-demographic-history)

-   [π and Tajima’s
    *D*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#pi-and-tajimas-d)
    -   [π](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#pi)
    -   [Tajima’s
        *D*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#tajimas-d)
-   [Stairway Plot
    2](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#stairway-plot-2)
    -   [Create the
        SFS](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#create-the-sfs)
    -   [The blueprint
        file](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#the-blueprint-file)
    -   [Running and
        results](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#running-and-results)

## [Selection scan](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#selection-scan)

-   [*Rsb* and
    *XP-EHH*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#rsb-and-xp-ehh)
    -   [*Rsb*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#rsb)
    -   [*XP-EHH*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#xp-ehh)
-   [*ABS*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#abs)

## [Detection of introgression](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/introgression#detection-of-introgression)

-   [*RND*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/introgression#rnd)
-   [Haplotype
    networks](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/introgression#haplotype-networks)

Commit message:

Add citation from the paper

README.md, after:

Population genomic evidence of adaptive response during the invasion
history of *Plasmodium falciparum* in the Americas
================
Margaux Lefebvre
2022-10-12

This repository is for this paper: (Margaux J M Lefebvre and others, Population Genomic Evidence of Adaptive Response during the Invasion History of Plasmodium falciparum in the Americas, Molecular Biology and Evolution, Volume 40, Issue 5, May 2023, msad082)[https://doi.org/10.1093/molbev/msad082]

The languages used are mainly bash and R. At the end of the README of
each part, there is a description of the software used (with its
version) and the information of the R session.

# Summary

## [Creating the data set](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#creating-the-data-set)

-   [Primary filters for the data from *P. falciparum* Community Project
    conducted by
    MalariaGen](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#primary-filters-for-the-data-from-p-falciparum-community-project-conducted-by-malariagen-blue)
-   [Mapping and calling for the added data (Brazil, Haiti and French
    Guiana)](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#mapping-and-calling-for-the-added-data-brazil-haiti-and-french-guiana-yellow)
-   [Merge & final filters for the whole
    dataset](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#merge--final-filters-for-the-whole-dataset-green)
    -   [Merge the
        data](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#merge-the-data)
    -   [Analysis on the
        VCF](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#analysis-on-the-vcf)
    -   [Filter multi-clonal
        infections](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#filter-multi-clonal-infections)
    -   [Filter related
        strains](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#filter-the-related-strains)
-   [LD-pruning, MAF filtering for some
    analysis](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#ld-pruning-maf-filtering-for-some-analysis)
-   [*Plasmodium praefalciparum* as an
    outgroup](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/creating_data_set#plasmodium-praefalciparum-as-an-outgroup)

## [Population structure analysis](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#population-structure-analysis)

-   [PCA](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#pca)
-   [ADMIXTURE](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#admixture)
-   [TreeMix](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#treemix)
    -   [The input
        format](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#the-input-format)
    -   [Find the optimal number of migration
        edges](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#find-the-optimal-number-of-migration-edges)
    -   [Find the consensus
        tree](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#find-the-consensus-tree)
-   [ADMIXTOOLS2](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#admixtools2)
    -   [Find the best admixture events
        number](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#find-the-best-admixture-events-number)
    -   [Find the best
        graph](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#find-the-best-graph)
    -   [The goodness of
        fit](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/population_structure#the-goodness-of-fit)

## [Population genetic diversity and demographic history](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#population-genetic-diversity-and-demographic-history)

-   [π and Tajima’s
    *D*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#pi-and-tajimas-d)
    -   [π](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#pi)
    -   [Tajima’s
        *D*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#tajimas-d)
-   [Stairway Plot
    2](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#stairway-plot-2)
    -   [Create the
        SFS](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#create-the-sfs)
    -   [The blueprint
        file](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#the-blueprint-file)
    -   [Running and
        results](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/diversity_demography#running-and-results)

## [Selection scan](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#selection-scan)

-   [*Rsb* and
    *XP-EHH*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#rsb-and-xp-ehh)
    -   [*Rsb*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#rsb)
    -   [*XP-EHH*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#xp-ehh)
-   [*ABS*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/selection_analysis#abs)

## [Detection of introgression](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/introgression#detection-of-introgression)

-   [*RND*](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/introgression#rnd)
-   [Haplotype
    networks](https://github.com/MargauxLefebvre/P.falciparum_americas/tree/main/introgression#haplotype-networks)
